---
layout: post
title: "BD, L9. Big Data Indexing"
description: "빅데이터 시스템 디자인, 아지즈교수님"
categories: [BigDataSystemDesign]
tags: [2022-1, Big Data System Design, BD, 아지즈]
use_math: false
redirect_from:
  - /BD/5
  - /blog/BD/5
---

* Kramdown table of contents
{:toc .toc} 

# Indexing

`Speed of query`

나중에 인덱싱 전후의 속도차이를 보여야함

m is order of B-tree
order : 계층, 레이어, 하이퍼파라미터, 사용자입력변수

B-Tree of Order m has the following properties
1. All the leaf nodes must be at the same level.
    - 모든 리프노드는 동일한 레벨에 있어야한다
2. All nodes except root must have at least \[m/2\]-1 keys and maximum of m-1 keys.
    - 루트를 제외한 모든 노드는 이만큼의 키를 가져야 한다
3. All non leaf nodes except root (i.e. all internal nodes) must have at least m/2 children.
    - 리프노드가 아닌 모든 노드는 m/2 차일드를 가져야 한다
4. If the root node is a non-leaf node, then it must have at least 2 children.
    - 
5. A non leaf node with n-1 keys must have n number of children.
6. All the key values within a node must be in Ascending Order.


In a B-Tree, the new element must be added only at leaf node.

1. If tree is Empty, then create a new node with new key value and insert into the tree as a root node.
2. If tree is Not Empty, then find `a leaf node` to which the new key value can be added using Binary Search Tree logic.
3. If that leaf node has an empty position, then add the new key value to that leaf node by maintaining ascending order of key value within the node.
4. If that leaf node is already full, then split that leaf node by sending middle value to its parent node. Repeat that same until sending value is fixed into a node.
5. If the splitting is occurring to the root node, then the middle value becomes new root node for the tree and the height of the tree is increased by one.


# MongoDB Indexing

db.collection.createIndex(keys, options)


prefixes

The order of the fields in the compound index is important
It dictates the index prefixes available for querying


The Equality, Sort, Range (ESR) rule 
Compound indexed fields should be in order of equality, then sorting, then range